# Introduction
"RNA interference (RNAi) represents one of the most sophisticated and conserved pathways evolved by eukaryotic cells for controlling gene expression. Although first described in the model organism Caenorhabditis elegans (Fire et al. 1998), RNAi is widely found in insects, plants (Gordon & Waterhouse, 2007) and animals (Schuster et al. 2019). In a post-transcriptional gene repression process, RNAi utilises non-translatable double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) molecules to sequester or degrade mRNA molecules. In the RNAi pathway, Dicer, an enzyme member of the RNase III family, cleaves long molecules of dsRNA into short RNA segments (approximately 20 bp long) to form siRNAs. One strand of the siRNA (guide strand) is selectively bound to Argonaute protein (an RNase H-like protein) in the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC). It guides the complex to the sequence-specific sites resulting in mRNA cleavage in a complementary manner (Zamore & Haley, 2005).",
\
"Pesticide toxicity on non-target organisms and environmental pollution are the most urgent concerns in current agriculture. As a result, RNAi technology, with its unprecedented pest target specificity and low environmental impact, is rapidly evolving as a promising safe alternative to toxic inorganic pesticides (Rank & Koch, 2021). Crop spray consisting of “naked”, complexed, or encapsulated dsRNA is becoming the most popular field application for RNAi.",
\
"The ability of RNAi pathways to inhibit gene expression holds considerable economic value in crop protection and biological control. Ingestion of exogenous dsRNA induces RNAi-mediated gene silencing in C. elegans and many pests (Baum et al., 2007; Leelesh & Rieske, 2020; Timmons et al. 2001). The efficacy of dsRNA-based induced gene silencing in insect pests depends on an efficient administration. Oral delivery of formulated dsRNA and dsRNA-expressing bacteria to larvae effectively causes RNAi-induced mortality in stink bugs (Euschistus heros) and emerald ash borer (EAB), respectively (Castellanos et al. 2019). Micro-injection has also been reported (Leelesh & Rieske, 2020). However, efficient dsRNA delivery could significantly depend on the target insect species and tissue. Insect orders respond differently to RNAi (Christiaens et al. 2020; Cooper et al. 2019). Lepidopterans are less sensitive to RNAi (Terenius et al. 2011) partially due to a repertoire of nucleases that degrade and, therefore, deplete dsRNA available to RNAi machinery and processing (Guan et al. 2018; Singh et al. 2017). Increasing dsRNA dosage by several micrograms may be required to achieve significant RNAi silencing in these species in laboratory settings, while field settings may even be more demanding (Xu et al. 2016)."
\
Publications: [A novel sustainable platform for scaled manufacturing of double-stranded RNA biopesticides](https://bioresourcesbioprocessing.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s40643-022-00596-2)